it's kind of strange because of the
situation that you're describing is is
not a great one and yet your mind always
turns to things that are positive and
inspiring like everything you're saying
leads me to believe that you know making
a decision like when I think about
people who are struggling with decisions
I think I don't think about someone who
is learning lessons and has great role
models and is filled with like love and
appreciation for their family
okay great soju BRE tell me what's going
on tell me a little bit about who you
are what's going on in your life and how
I and twitch cat can reform you all
right let me turn on the light seems
like I think it's better okay so first
of all hi everyone nice to meet y'all oh
you you can call me JJ or debris
my real name is very hard to pronounce I
guess maybe you can pronounce it um but
it's my real name is job what job are ya
job but job what I say about my daddy
called and swatters my full name okay
but I'm from I'm from the kingdom of
behind and from the Middle East I was
born there raised I'm only in the US for
college a little about myself let me see
I speak three languages I speak Arabic
Farsi in English although the former - I
didn't have a choice
my mom's Persian my dad's Arabic so okay
they taught me the language languages
and I taught myself English for the most
part from a young age actually it's kind
of not I think of it it's kind of a
weird trait my family and I share we're
like foot like polyglots like my my mom
speaks Hindi Persian Arabic English so
does my dad yeah how's your main
question job our job our job of job but
it's at the end there's a it's like it's
a Kessler in Arabic yeah yes yeah that's
fine we'll see I made I may try it on
yeah but how's your head bobble do you
guys head bobble in Baja like like this
yeah actually when my when my mom speaks
over my dad but my parents on they speak
to like Indians and Hindi they yeah it's
kind of interesting because it's it it
you change it depending on what language
you speak you don't had bobble when I
speak English
hmm but when I speak one of the Indian
languages that I speak then I had bobble
yeah
that's a pretty cool thing yeah so yeah
yeah my brother also speaks languages I
speak and none nobody my family speaks
English as well as I do just because I
took it upon myself to you know imitate
the American accent and all that and
watch Hollywood movies etc Arabic
actions I can do it Arabic accent in
English hello my friends how are you how
are you doing I'm afraid the people in
the chat would be very confused so no
they will they will just think they are
what not watching an American dream tell
me Java yes yeah yeah yeah yeah so what
how can we help
so to be honest I actually doing the
whole interview in accents no I think I
sooo be too hard for me yeah yeah oh yes
up to you I think it's gonna be it's
gonna be throw me out hard for you
that's what she said yeah yeah that's
what should I like you already dr. kay
but so I I think there's a plethora of
things that I want to talk about but
since we're limited in time obviously
sure I think I think the angle now do
you want to talk about eventually is
like life just like decision making
right now being a 22 year old is gonna
graduate next month and figure out what
I want to do in life and career-wise but
I think it might be better for you to
get to know me and get to know kind of
my history to know exactly what type of
person I am and we'll applies to me I
don't know it's up to you I'm not the
guy who would be best suited to but if
that's what you that's what you think we
should do I can do that and then we can
get to I think the crux of the matter or
in solo mob war okay so tell me a little
bit about who you are okay so so yeah um
I'm a Muslim I was born obviously like I
said in behind and mushiya most someone
the minority of Muslims was like 10% I
think so yeah sorry I've tried to be
organic this is not not planned or
anything I don't have anything in mind I
just want to like go with the flow we
know what I mean so it's harder to be
more organized mentally and I don't want
to use a lot of filler words there's one
thing that I'm practicing right now is
not to use AHS and likes and it's hard
but I pick up I I blame my American
peers for that thing but well I was just
gonna say yeah go ahead and go for it no
go for it I was gonna say like there's a
lot of things that affected me in the
past and and my growth personally okay
like I guess when you so we'll get right
into it I guess
okay so I've been mentally and
physically abused by my father okay for
I would say 15 to 16 years of my life
and so 15 to 16 years because it stopped
when you left for college or no he said
when you were like six I guess I mean
started as far as I can remember maybe
like when I was three and so I would say
if he subtract that I'll be like 13 to
12 years
so stop them out when I was 15 or 16 and
it's not because I went to college it's
because he stopped abusing me and my
brother so I have three siblings I have
an older brother who's two years older
than me he's 24 I'm 22 and sister who's
17 and a younger brother who's five or
six I forget but yeah so yeah my dad was
very abusive and I I think it affected
my growth it has a way of doing that
unfortunately yeah and so this one I
think it's one of the reasons I want to
leave the country sure but like when I
say abuse so usually you know in at
least I don't know how similar Indian
culture is to Middle Eastern like it's
at least Arabic it's because it's a very
honor shame culture kind of
so so in that sense I think you can
compare but you know fathers they want
to raise men you know men can be
emotional they can you know cry said all
that stuff and so yeah I've never seen
my dad cry ever in my life and if I did
see him cry I would cover his eyes even
a funeral or something mm-hmm so I've
never seen that side of my dad never
seemed like the vulnerable side of my
dad and yeah so what a lot of kids like
my friends they got hit by their fathers
you know just a discipline thing it's
like common in the Middle East but the
thing is I didn't know that I was being
abused so I thought it was normal
because I'm a child I've never
experienced a life other than the life
I'm experiencing right now so as a child
there's nothing else I experience to
compare it to so when I asked my friend
zio does your dad beats you like yeah he
does be like okay so I'm not the only
one but the thing is he's not beating
them with a shovel in the face that's
the difference yeah and so or throw a
rock in my eye yeah or throw a rock at
full speed in my on my freakin skull
right I'm surprised I'm not at least to
my knowledge I'm not damaged my brain so
doesn't seem like it hopefully not but
yeah so the abuse got really bad
he never hit my mom so I think he knows
his limits right like he doesn't hit a
woman because like that's like it's a
prop
he's a very proud man or whatever I I
don't hit women etc etc but he's very
abusive to her in other ways like
vocally so the only source of affection
I've ever gone was from my grandma
because even or somewhat my mom but both
of them were working for the most part
and so me my brother were left home with
the housemaids that would take care of
us
and then you know when my dad comes back
home it's a gamble whether he's gonna
beat us or not if you had a bad day or
not so and I would try my best to go to
my friends house or whatever to not take
the chance you know what I mean if he
has a better day
and sometimes like the most common way
that would cause him to beat us as if
just if he's taking a nap and me and my
brother like having fun playing a game
or something and then we wake him up and
eat and that's it we wrapped a Wiccan
curse right we're [ __ ]
yeah yeah curse away my body um so yeah
like it got really bad like like when I
say abuse it's not like slapping it in
the wrist or whatever it's like like
punched in the face full force by a
going grown man so and my brother got it
worse whatever I got my brother got
twice twice as so why is that because he
could take it I guess he's so so he's at
least when we were younger so since the
two years mattered when it comes to our
growth when I was like four he was six
he was like way taller right now I'm the
tallest in the family I'm the I'm the
largest I'm even taller than my dad but
I think growing up I think that's why
because my brother was taller he was
more my brother was a more of a brat I
was a very nice child I was very quiet
very chill I didn't speak a lot and
disobey a lot if my dad tell me to do
something I'd be like yes sir and I'd do
it my brother would be he would make his
sighs sounding like like what you say
you know what I mean mm-hmm so sorry I'm
getting shaky talking about this I don't
usually talk about this but what are you
feeling sorry shaky like nervous um I
don't know like fear is I'm thinking of
the past and like the emotions that I
used to feel that I dropped away for a
long time is that what you're feeling
yeah yeah I think motions that I that I
trapped that I tried to escape
I guess I'm leaving I'm revisiting and
so JJ you know it's kind of weird it
seems like you were able to tell most of
the story about yourself without me it
seems like the most emotion that you
felt is when you started talking about
your brother really yeah I do love my
brother I mean do you think things have
are you feeling more over the last like
let's say 60 seconds or 90 seconds as a
as opposed to the first part
yeah I'm not sure if it's because of my
brother because I'm getting more more
more deeper into the into the
conversation mm-hmm yeah I'm not
shutting it could be
I do love my brother I think actually
now that you bring it up I always had a
soft spot like even if I do something
wrong or if my brother does something
wrong let's say like he beats me or
something I would feel bad cuz I would
know if my dad finds out he's gonna kick
his ass and so I would try to say like
no I just fell or something that's how I
got the bruising oh because I didn't
want my I don't want my brother to take
the fall and getting a beat up for it
for it and so a lot of times like even
like two of my stitches I got I've been
stitched six times not even not on this
front from my dad but two of them went
for my brother and not because he beat
me but because he did an accident like
mistake so we're playing hide and seek
and I was going up the closet and I want
to hide with him in the closet and as
out as I was climbing up he was tickling
my armpit and then oh yeah I was telling
you stop like he I was laughing so hard
he wouldn't know I was serious like I'm
losing my grip and I'm like stop stop
but he wouldn't
I was laughing and he thought was funny
I end up slipping I felt like full force
on my back and then inertia or the
momentum like judge over my head back
and hit the corner of a wall and then I
got stitches in the top of my head
that's one that's one way he got me
still she's another way he threw like a
sharp object but landed in my head that
didn't priests my brain thank goodness
got stitches because of that but both
times my debt to this day does not know
the heat caused yes I didn't tell
so-and-so yes yeah God sorry I if you
let me I will talk forever that's the
thing yeah you can stop me yeah I mean
do you talk about this stuff often I've
only speaking I've only spoken about it
once with my therapist okay how long
they're pissed
of for a year how's that going well this
is going pretty well but she she
diagnosed me with PTSD which I don't
really think I have just because so just
fast forwarding like after so going back
like my dad
he stopped abusing us when he made a
friend made a friend but I started
talking more to one of his closer
friends who's a very religious Muslim
and he's known him ever since he was a
kid and he was like teaching him to be a
better Muslim and like he have two teeth
do you have to like treat your family
well etc etc and so after that my dad
stopped being us um and you know there's
two there's two ways one could I guess
respond to this one way would be like I
don't forgive you dad for what you've
done and the other ways like the other
ones like I forgive you and I just want
to move on and you know have a better
relationship with you going on cuz now
he's a good father
like I don't complain about him he's a
good dad
so a good dad even when we use abusing
you yeah I would say he like good dad
not in a sense that he was emotionally
available or but he did take care of his
family at the end of the day so like he
he he the only reason so so like the two
responses I said like forgiving him and
moving on and not forgiving him that's
kind of scrubbing me and my brother I
forgave my dad even though my dad never
asked for forgiveness
I know deep down inside he regrets the
things he's done but my brother to this
day is not forgiven my dad
and so I forgive him because I know my
dad has went through the same [ __ ] as we
did he has you know what I think we're
talking about today what are we talking
about I think we're talking about your
brother really yeah
how do you feel about that um I actually
don't know how I feel about that let me
ask you something do you do you feel
like your brother protected you from
your dad yes I can see that yeah yeah my
brother's always been there for me like
he's he's been a person that I can
depend on at all times
so he's the type of guy that would drop
everything to to help help his family
out especially me my mother he's like
he's like the second in charge basically
so it sounds like you in a lot of ways
your your brother is what a dad is
supposed to be yeah true yeah
yeah he was like I'm so I'm very close
to my brother actually before I came to
his call was talking to him asking like
what's up back home you know how how are
you doing cuz he just he just finished
his master's degree he got his degree
yesterday so it's congratulating him and
all that so how's he doing he's doing
well so far there's a lot of things
going on back home they are not good and
so he has to take care of that mm-hmm
I've been stressed well this is gonna
switch gears real fast but my mom's
recently found out that my dad's been
cheating on her for the past 10 years so
she wants to get a divorce and and she's
been emotionally like broken
and my brother has to be there for her
etcetera
she's like doing very she thought very
negative she like she had negative
thoughts like maple most suicidal etc
and my brother I'm like yo like you
gotta like be there for her etcetera
etcetera so it he has more things to
worry about because he wants to get a
job because my family's financially
struggling because of all this and I'm
not getting any college I'm not getting
any scholarships whatever to attend here
like my mom's taking out loans to to
support me coming here yeah so my
brother is very stressed but you know I
know he can handle it and yeah that's
how he did that's he's he's fine
I'm just he's just worried more about my
we were both worried more about my
mother than ourselves really haha
because like our mom is like very very
very important for us to us yeah I'm
gonna just think for a second is that
okay JJ yeah of course so I mean I I'm
gonna just start tossing stuff out so I
I think you know you you mentioned that
you're looking for guidance about what
to do after you finish college mm-hmm
I think we're talking about your brother
I think we're talking about his
capability that you know he's capable I
think we're talking a little bit about
you shirking your responsibilities by
letting him handle things I think we're
talking about whether you should go back
or whether you should stay whether you
should prioritize your own career we're
talking about whether you should put
your life ahead of your families and
we're talking about your guilt in terms
of letting your brother handle what
maybe you're a big man enough to handle
now are we talking about mm-hmm exactly
about that yeah so right now my dad is
pressuring me to find a job in the US
and initially so
I'm taking an extra semester so this is
I was supposed to graduate in May mm-hmm
but I took an extra semester to minor in
business because I didn't know what I
want to do and it seemed like everything
was moving too too quickly and I didn't
have a chance to make it choice whether
if I want to go back home or stay here
and so since I had a student visa and
it's hard to obtain um I was like I'll
take advantage of it and and take an
extra semester mm-hmm so I don't know
what I want to do because everybody's
advising me even my mom my brother boy
something like stay there get a career
jobs are harder to get or good jobs are
hard to get in the Middle East
it's full of nepotism and all that stuff
and so I'm like stuck I'm like in a rut
yep so I can I like
there's a lot of there's also selfish
reasons for me to go back home like I'll
admit like it's gonna be more
comfortable for me because I'm my
country a small country I know
everything about it I'm getting more
comfortable in it my friends are there
our girlfriends there you know and so
it's easier for me just to go back home
and get a degree in like hey you know
tell tell people or employers I studied
in the u.s. I'm an asset to your company
asset etc another option B is for me to
stay here like everybody telling me to
because there's a better opportunities
for me and even if I'd like my dad says
even or my brother both of them are
saying even if I don't end up living in
the u.s. at least working for a year or
two is gonna help my resume immensely
going back they'll have the
international experience basically you
know so
that's that's where I'm stuck I'm
looking for jobs I've been applying I
should got response today from one of
the careers and so like my major is
computer information systems so it's
like a lot of coding and stuff with some
business on the side but the thing is
I'm not passionate about programming I'm
good at it but I just don't like doing
okay and you know so that's something
I'm struggling with as well so JJ I mean
I I think like I mean we can talk about
computer information systems in your
career and all that stuff as much as you
want to I don't think that's why you're
coming here today mm-hmm I think I think
what we're talking about today is
selfishness versus sacrifice mmm-hmm and
I think we're talking about your
struggle about whether you should go or
whether you should stay and and who gets
helped and who gets left behind
yeah so fill that in like I'm just
tossing out words right I'm tossing out
like themes but I don't know I think
you're way forward and I don't know if
twitch chat is gonna understand like
what what I mean by that
it's clear to me that you understand
what we mean by that I just don't know
if we've laid things out and Twitch's
following along or if it's just like too
vague mm-hmm okay so so yeah tell us
about that fill in the gaps for us so if
I go back home I'll be able to this
summer I worked part time I went back
home the past summer I worked back home
as a videographer that's my passion I
like doing video stuff video editing and
all that and so I worked part time and
my boss offered me a full time so if I
go back home now I will get a job that's
not an issue and I can like my mom will
feel like some weight off her shoulders
because she knows she doesn't have to
financially support me being away and my
sister who was studying in the Emirates
she wants to be a dentist she's also
like my mom is telling her her jewelry
and all that just so she can support my
sister right now and so if I leave if I
graduate and go back home that's one
less person she
financial support and that's gonna help
pearl a ton and I can get money and I
can work and I can pay off her help her
pay off her loans and debts right that's
that's one thing I can do for my family
if I stay here that means I will still
need more financial support even if I
graduate it doesn't I'm not gonna get it
immediately once I start working I might
even just get an internship and unpaid
internship by still thinking you know
SUNY [ __ ] all that I'm sorry we just
cut out there for a second keep going
yeah so what was it was last thing you
heard economic so so you you were saying
something about even if you stay here
you're gonna need some degree of
financial support and then I didn't
catch the details around that yeah so
I'm still gonna need financial support
because I might get an unpaid internship
position so I will still need support
from from my family to get an apartment
and all that for the duration of the
internship okay and then like you can't
get a paying job because getting a visa
that's what yeah gotcha
never mind okay yes but go ahead yeah
and so if I getting an unpaid internship
and the longer means I'll get a visa
from the company and followed up by a
full-time position that's a less risky
route for me even if I have to get some
financial support early for the for the
duration of the internship which is
probably three months but it's also a
risk in a sense because I don't know how
guaranteed a full-time position will
follow up after yet but it's still gonna
be good for my resume I think it's a
win-win situation if I get the
internship I get the work visa I still
have I can make connections I can have
it in my resume and I can go back home
with with with a powerful resume so
that's that's sacrifice if I stay here
it means I'm sacrificing the the like
helping my family out by being there for
them
I can I can drive
back home that means I can help my mom
and get her stuff she doesn't have to go
drive around everywhere I can do a lot
of things by being there physically and
getting a job there but it's not gonna
be the best career choice for me
personally okay that's better trade off
so you mentioned your mom is financially
supporting you does your dad work
my dad had retired might have had a
successful career and he retired very
early he retired when he was 40 he's 50
something he thought I was 43 even
though he had more opportunities to make
a lot of money but continued to work and
he chose not to because he values he
says he values his life and he wants to
do the things he wants to do which is
which it seems to be fishing every
weekend and going fishing and every
weekend but what he's been doing
recently he built a an apartment
building so he's at Landlord now but he
took a lot of loans for that from his
friends and from the bank and now and
now he has some tenants and he's
currently working on paying loans back
I'm just a little bit confused about you
you talk about your mom and dad as if
they're separate financial units they
are yeah that's the issue
my mom always support my mom works at a
bank she works in HSBC and she always
she was like the the backbone of our
house she would support the house by
bringing food every week I'm in
groceries and all that she supported us
in school because my dad didn't want us
to go to private school he want us to go
to public school my mom was like no I
think private will be better and he's
like okay if you wanna do that he could
have to pay for for the private school
she's like fine and she did it and so it
seems yeah so my mom is a hell of a
woman she's amazing so she she has been
supporting abandoning was her must be
hard yes that's very hard and she's she
I feel bad because I'm helpless
in case of helping her financially I
want to be successful nor to help to get
her like the car she wants or whatever
she wants you know because she's been in
her entire life if I mean we don't have
time for talking about her life but her
entire life has been a sacrifice like
she's been sacrificing the sake of her
own family her parents financially and
then now for her kids she never had time
for her own how do you feel about that I
feel sad yeah every time like I I pray
like my Muslim prayers I like pray for
her all the time
so she's she deserves a lot and you know
what bothers me what it really annoys me
like when we talk about religion she's
like I don't know if I'm if I'm gonna go
to heaven like I might go to hell who
knows I'm like mom if you're gonna go to
hell there's no way I'm gonna go to
heaven so give me a chance you know tell
me you're gonna go to heaven just so I
can think I can get a chance to go there
because there's no I get to go to heaven
and you get to go to hell God has done
something wrong I mean we have to switch
places you know what I mean like so yeah
she's an angel
so she's supporting i yeah she's
supporting me financially she works at a
bank she's still the only working person
in the family and she's very stressed
like she's a good boss and she's she's a
good and she works well she doesn't
she's good at her job but it's taxing on
her cuz I see her working every night
from home
she's like a workaholic and like she has
the things are on her eyes to black and
I don't know blackness on her eyes
showing it she never gets sleep she
sleeps like three four hours a day she's
always tired so she yeah so she
financially supports me and she and my
dad's also has been taking money from
her as well okay I gave me this money
for I need it for the building and I'll
pay you back and sometimes he doesn't
pay back and it gets annoying with my
mom my dad lucky I'm doing it for the
family cetera cetera so
with the whole I feel really angry
because I feel like my dad can be very
hypocritical so like I don't understand
how when you changed to be a better
father you couldn't change to be a
better husband and you still maintain to
cheat on my mom after you changed right
I don't understand that
um so dad sounds like quite the [ __ ]
yeah but he's very wise like he's a good
like my dad is a wise he's very wise he
like he some of the life lessons I like
I remember him teaching me things that I
still remember to this day like what for
instance
we were in the car one day and my dad
asked me it's like I was like eight or
nine and he asked me like do you want to
be what do you wanna be in life and I
said I want to be a millionaire you know
I want to have a lot of money and he's
like how do you want to do that and I
said I don't know I'm gonna make the
best video game ever
or something like that I forgot the
answer and he says look at the building
like we're driving he's very he loves
teaching by examples and metaphors and
he likes he likes asking questions
rather than teaching me something like
this is how you do something he'd like
to ask me a question making and he makes
me ponder like wow I see what you mean
so he's like you see this building like
yeah it's like how do you get to the
roof do you just fly up to the roof and
he's like and I was like no what do you
do is like you take the stairs or you
take the elevator you go step by step
it's like exactly so don't think about
life the way your thing like oh I'm just
gonna make a video game and I'm gonna be
rich that's not how life works you got
to take the stairs it's gonna be tiring
especially if it's a like a tall
building like the one you were asking
what millionaire is not an easy task and
so that's one of the things I remember
another thing do you think he'd mind the
stairs yes he my dad has a had a
terrible life I would say and this is
one of the things what one of the
choices
remember I said I chose to forgive
forgive my dad even though he didn't ask
for forgiveness the only reason I was
able to forgive my dad it's because my
mom told me about his upbringing
and his upbringing was very bad so like
his dad married three women not at the
same time
first one passed away very early and so
he married another woman shortly after
she had a lot of kids and she died as
well giving birth to her last child and
then he made my my direct grandma and
they had a lot of kids so my his father
was about his 60s when my when my dad
was born hmm and he was very sick and so
my dad didn't have a father figure all
right
he never had a father figure and he had
older brothers so when he was born he
had brothers that were like in their 20s
and so those are the ones who are taking
care of him and they would beat the crap
out of him so this like as bad as he
would beat us so they would hang him on
a ceiling fan like a pinata and smack
him that's how that's how bad he got
some fact as a kid and so he he's a he's
a my dad is a very handy man like that
his his family was dirt poor he would go
to the bike repair shop and look at the
garbage in the bike repair shop and get
like pieces like spare parts for the
bike and make his own bike on his own he
would learn on his own hmm see so he can
anything he can throw at him he can fix
car engine boat engine air conditioning
whatever so he was his survival he was a
survivalist and that's why he became
successful because he was the only one
who finished school from his you have a
lot of positive things to say about
everyone in your family yeah how do you
feel about yourself uh
can't catch a break Oh like the abuse
when I was a kid and then I was also
very obese as a child I was very fat I
lost most of my weight back in I was 250
50 pounds yeah
haiji I got to 20 2015 I used to walk
every day for half an hour or two an
hour and just eat better so mixing sound
office this is my sound okay hello I can
hear you fine okay yeah I'm not sure so
we'll see but so so you feel you say you
can't catch a break like in what way
like I don't feel like like all my life
I've been stressed I don't feel like an
i I've ever felt like relaxed or content
with where I with where I was like I'm
going through a hair loss right now my
dad is bald so I'm guessing his genetic
but he lost his hair he started losing
his hair in his 30s I started losing my
hair when I was 18 when I'm when I came
here for college okay and so and I'm
sure you know the concept of halal food
right like kosher halal I don't have any
halal food here to enter the chat if
they're confused halal food is basically
permissible food for Muslims and so
there's not any halal meat here in
college so I became like a vegetarian
almost I just eat salads every day I was
very malnourished when it comes to
proteins and stuff and so my hair loss
is accelerating and that that really
like hurt my self-image because I
stopped the care and I still like be
proud to take care of my hair and all
that and I'm losing it
but at this point I really don't care
like about my hair like you know I sew
so I'm okay hold on let me just I'm
sorry if I'm all over the place I don't
know it's not sure it's not your fault
so I think um so first let me tell you
what I'm seeing
okay so like you painted me a picture
that is over
only positive and loving right so like
you're talking about the sort of
desperate situation but when I hear you
talk you're smiling a lot you're talking
about how inspiring and sacrificing your
mom is how inspiring and and wise your
dad is you're talking about how awesome
your brother is you know it's kind of
strange because of the situation that
you're describing is is not a great one
and yet your mind always turns to things
that are positive and inspiring like
everything you're saying leads me to
believe that you know making a decision
like when I think about people who are
struggling with decisions I think I
don't think about someone who is
learning lessons and has great role
models and is filled with like love and
appreciation for their family that
usually leads to sort of some sense of
security or direction in life and yet
you're talking about positivity like
even I mean you're kind of saying you
kind of say like oh I'm angry with my
dad and then when I kind of reflect that
back to you I kind of say like he kind
of sounds like an [ __ ] like your mom
is working double shifts and supporting
you and he's out fishing and taking
loans from everyone including your mom
and then when I call him an [ __ ]
what's your response
do you remember honey I try to empathize
you say he's a really wise man and and
on the surface I think it sounds like
really saintly for you to forgive your
dad right it sounds like the kind of
thing that your mom would do and and I'm
just not getting like any negativity
from you but your life should be full of
negativity I feel like the negative
thing right now or there's two things if
I there's another gonna take a turn but
there's two things right if I didn't
think the abuse I was getting was normal
because I thought it was normal because
sometimes half my face will be purple
because of the smacking you'll get right
if I did the thing I was normal now as I
was getting abused I would probably not
be alive today
like that's just being serious I thought
was normal I didn't know it was
I was being abused I don't know I
thought I was going through this so I'll
just be a [ __ ] if I you know thought
about suicide whatever right and so that
lets just me being real and that's how
it was as a kid not mean looking back
when I went to therapy yeah
so I'm gonna jump in right there mm-hmm
so like I'm mentioning to you that you
seem to be like very inspiring and
positive despite this very difficult
situation and you say that it's
difficult but I'm not hearing you use
the language of difficulty everything is
like about growth and learning and
wisdom and sacrifice and then when I ask
you that the for some reason your mind
goes to if I didn't know I was in such a
bad situation
or if I knew I was in such a bad
situation then I may have become
suicidal but I thought it was normal so
like that's kind of a weird thing to say
in response to what I'm pointing out to
you so why do you think you said that I
I think that was a precursor to what -
to what - yeah so like the second part I
was gonna say like right now I feel very
like me thinking about the past and the
things that I went through it's kind of
affecting me right now because I feel
like I blocked that part up like of my
life off and then now it's coming it's
rushing to me like a flood yeah
sometimes I would cry like when I would
sleep or I dream about my dad beating me
things like that which I some things I
didn't experience ever I have insomnia
so I can't sleep without the TV being on
yes something like I struggle with
I'm very lethargic now especially my
last my last semester I feel like very
lazy and I just want to get a job and
just I don't want to study anymore it's
like yeah yeah so like this is kind of
weird so like I don't know how to
explain this to you but you know
jay-j like you should have rage in your
heart you should have like frustration
and anger in disappointment I think you
have guilt
I think guilt is the only thing you've
got that's the only thing I'm really
picking up from you but there should be
a lot of other stuff mm-hmm like your
understand that your dad so I think it's
a very mature outlook to have to
recognize with him and also like do you
forgive him for what he did for it to
your mom you know how do you feel about
that I'm very mad about that and he
doesn't know that I know see my dad my
dad really loves his kids and he cares
about what we think about him yeah he's
a very proud man yep he I cannot be
never like even when I argue with him or
debate with him about the religious
topic or whatever political topic Lusaka
chol he doesn't like losing and he
doesn't admit when he loses and he tries
to I don't say he loses often I keep I
think I think he loves you guys but I it
sounds to me like he's quite
narcissistic yes yes very much so and so
my my he doesn't want he doesn't want
and he has a special place in his heart
for me out of all of his kids my mom
told me this because he feels like out
ever since I was a child I was obedient
one like I mentioned earlier I was a
beating I would say yes sir
and so he doesn't want me to know that
side of him he doesn't want to know the
cheating side of him like he would he
would Gary I'm gonna jump in okay let me
ask you something what what do you what
do you think is the right thing to do
for my mom know divorce him what is what
is the right thing for you to do in your
life take care of my mom okay
in what way I want her to does that mean
staying or going she
wants me to stay that's not what I asked
I don't know how I can help let me ask
you this so everyone is telling you that
staying is the right thing to do right
what would your dad do in your situation
who would stay that's why it's hard for
you that's why it's hard for you because
your mom is telling you don't come back
establish yourself and then you can help
me
your brother is saying I can handle [ __ ]
and you feel filled with guilt because
you're leaving him to pick up the pieces
because he's the one who takes the blows
right he's the one who takes the blows
for you so he's saying I can help out
mom you see he's stressed you she sees
she's stressed and he's doing the thing
that he's always done for you which is
like tank
he's the tank your mom is saying you
should stay and you want to go and the
thing that I think it makes it really
hard you're telling me that objectively
the right move is to stay for your
career I think the reason that you can't
bring yourself to stay is because that's
what your [ __ ] dad would do that's
the problem and so like if you stay you
become him and you can say as much as
you want to about him being wise but
like I don't think you want to be him he
is the last person on this world that
you want to be like you know you once
told me that like you know you earlier
said that like your mom is worried about
going to hell and you were kind of
saying if you go to hell then I don't
know I have no chance of getting into
heaven and I think that there's like a
there's like a flipside of that which is
like you don't think your dad should go
to heaven no I think my dad should go to
heaven okay
I I don't wish hell on anybody and this
is gonna sound like this is gonna sound
like very controversial but I don't even
wish hell on Hitler even though like cuz
no I I think that makes sense yeah hell
is eternal punishment yeah III think on
balance you can it's completely
reasonable and I think you can be a
person that really doesn't want to wish
ill on anyone
and at the same time I think there's a
part of you that wishes that there's a
lot of negativity towards your dad
mm-hmm and I I think that this this
really comes down to like you don't want
to be if he ends up in heaven you want
to be in hell like it's like the flip of
your mom and I I sense that current and
you and I think the problem here is that
it's it's like buried beneath so much
like positivity and it's it's buried but
beneath a lot of compassion and it's
buried beneath a lot of maturity but I
think it's there like I find it hard to
believe that that it's not there I think
give me a second let me let me like it
dig into my because I I'm bad at at like
realizing my emotions I think that I
really do love my dad I think you do too
and part of my brain is saying you
shouldn't because of the things he's
done to you and it is doing to your mom
right but I don't feel it yeah so here's
the problem
it's not that you shouldn't it's that
you should feel other things as well so
I think the problem is that your
feelings are one dimensional like the
question that I have for you JJ is do
you hate your dad no can you love and
hate someone yes so then the question
becomes why don't you hate your dad I
think it's because I've only seen one
side of him like like two sides of him
right one side is him being very abusive
and that's the side that I blocked for
most of my life after that in a sec and
the second side of is him being a very
very good father to me this is the side
that I want you to think about for a
second the side that act that side that
tells your mom if you want our kids to
go to private school you [ __ ] pay for
it and then the side that tells your mom
hey I need some money for the business
this is for the family and then he
doesn't give it back
how do
feel about that guy I feel very angry
about that guy do you hate that guy
yeah it doesn't like it doesn't it
doesn't go with the guy I see and that's
the problem right I hear stories about
him I hate their stories about him I
don't I don't see him doing the axe
because I can only have one type of
relationship with my father and that's
fathered a son I don't have a wife to
husband relationship with my father
obviously because I'm nice wife but you
know I can't yeah just his son so the
way he talks to me is different than we
talks to my mom and so I only hear from
my mom and I feel angry and I empathize
with her but then when I went on goes on
I go I'm back to squirm which is I love
my dad yeah so I think that you have to
understand the negativity like the thing
that's buried here and the thing that's
hard for you I think is the absence of
negativity you feel some degree of guilt
but like I think at the end of the day
you know you've got to first of all
understand that like the reason that you
don't want to stay is because that's
what your dad would do because that
feels like the wrong thing but like
you've got to come to terms with that
and that it may not be just because it's
what your dad do doesn't mean that it's
the wrong thing but I think the reason
it feels like the wrong thing is because
it's what your dad would do like you
have to understand that staying doesn't
mean becoming your dad mm-hmm yeah I I
do I do not want to be like my dad so
and I told my mom this like when she had
my baby brother I was this was yeah I
was like 16 17 just right when the abuse
stopped and like I told I told my mom I
never if I ever had kids I never want to
hit them ever because I know how how
that feels right now said I don't think
I said emotion I'll ever forget and so
my brother was born I made a vow to
myself to never hit him I'm the only one
in the household who's never hit him
even my mom like I said I don't mean
like he's been like if you used like
he's like smack in the hand or the
maximum that I've done is yell at him
and so there was a very hard
worming moment for me which made me cry
and I asked my brother and this is like
I got like I mean this is like a PTSD
thing there's no way I and I understand
why my Sheriff this brings up PTSD but
when I asked my brother like why do you
love me right I said I said you love me
said yeah I love you so why do you love
me said cuz either you never beaten me
and like Wow
like imagine loving someone because they
have not beaten you they don't love you
because I mean me I'm sure he loves
because I'm nice to him and all that
like I by him like but the first thought
he things like initially as a kid right
kids are very harness you saved a lot of
wise stuff but I think your your mind is
circling around the problem everything
you're saying like what do you just tell
me like what is that story me not
wanting to be like my father
yeah and it's also inspiring and
positive mm-hmm so I mean I think you're
you're just you're swimming in
positivity which i think is like very
like it's bizarre it's like sort of a
it's a very mature thing to do but I
think it's actually holding you back and
that's causing you a problem because
you're saying like I don't want to be
like my father I don't want to be like
my father but what you've got to start
doing is like stop living in comparison
to him right you have to make a decision
about whether whether you go or you stay
based on your life in your family and
what you want to do and and you have to
really sit down with your mom and your
brother and like understand that like
you're leaving like that the problem
with like you staying here is that
you're leaving them so can you make that
can you make that sacrifice is it okay
to like leave them to manage their own
[ __ ] because you're filled with guilt
and it's guilt that's causing you to go
back and generally speaking you know I I
think it's it's good to put your your
family first like I think that's an
important thing and it's an important
part of your entire Amma I just wonder
for free if you go back today how much
can you support your mom if you go back
two years from now how much you can you
support your mom how much can you
support your brother
and that's why I that's the conflict
right because if I go back now I can
short-term help them but long term I can
do way more by staying here and helping
helping yeah so I mean I think that's
the conflict but I think if you want to
resolve this conflict you've got to
understand the negativity because you
understand the positive part of it very
well there is another issue to it though
so like when it comes to my degree and
my passion that's another struggle I
have a conflict I have because like I
said you know I'm graduating with a
computer information systems degree but
I'm not passionate I'm good at coding
but I don't think I like it as a I would
like it as a career I'm more of a
problem solver critical thinker etc I
really love philosophy so like I like
you know reading my Immanuel Kant or
Nietzsche or whatever but so so and I do
like video doing video um you know
that's one of the things I am passionate
but I've been doing it since I was 12
I used to edit called DD montages my
crappy laptop and put him on YouTube and
I used to teach as a 12 year old
actually this is funny this is one of
videos I made on YouTube is still up
there it has like eighty thousand views
and I was like twelve teaching somebody
had to convert an mp4 file so I can so
you can use it in Windows Movie Maker so
I have a passion for video but it
doesn't pay well and it's hard to get a
job for a video but I have a degree in
something that pays well but I want
something in between
I wanted something in business that's
why I'm minor in your business like
management or something because I feel
like I can lead people okay so Jay Jay
listen yes I don't think you're gonna
get the kind of satisfaction that maybe
you were hoping for because I I think
you're skirting around the issue like I
keep on saying the same thing to you and
you keep on changing the subject what am
I saying to you
that I should stay here no I'm saying
that you've got a grapple with your
negativity but I can't it's hard I don't
know that's why that's that's exactly
why you keep on talking about other [ __ ]
so like I want everyone to understand
this when there is a hard decision you
face your mind will run to anything it
can to complicate the situation you'll
add as many variables as you can to the
equation you're gonna make any time
you're faced with a difficult decision
that you don't want to make your mind is
gonna try to add as much complicating
[ __ ] as you can because then you can
like you start talking about oh but I
want to like do videography and it's my
passion and like but this pays better
like what should I do because like I'm
telling you like like JJ your problem is
that you have to decide whether you want
to be an [ __ ] to your family that's
your decision mm-hmm because that's what
it's gonna feel like and you have to
decide like do I want guilt in the
feeling of not being an [ __ ] to like
control what I do or can I come to a
place where I can say like okay I'm
gonna stay and acknowledge that I'm
gonna leave my my brother and my mom
behind but I'm really doing it for them
and like it's gonna feel bad for a while
and I'm not like my dad that I'm really
doing this for them and not just for
myself I think I've come to accept that
the rest of it I think is details I mean
I think you can you can come up to
whatever kinds of other things you want
to talk about like oh like should you
follow your passion or should you do
what pays I mean I think in your
position I would do what pays and then
like do my passion on the side like
that's what I do I don't think like you
can I mean I like I have a job and then
I do this because this is my passion I
don't think the two are mutually
exclusive and I think if you get if you
get good at your job like if you're
gonna work it like see is like I imagine
that involves some amount of coding and
you're gonna probably be paid like
hourly or based on stuff and I think if
you're as good as you say you are you
could probably get paid for 40 hours a
week and work 20 and on 20 you do
videography on the side like that's the
whole point behind getting a salary job
is you get
really really good at it and then you do
your own [ __ ] on their dime that's how
you game the system so I don't think
this is like an either/or I think you're
22 yeah
you're 22 you've got 40 years of work
ahead of you and you can develop your
passion start making like I don't know
if you know this but like people get
paid a lot for video editing nowadays
you know you can make a lot of money
like through videography you can be like
a contract videographer on the side and
have a day job that pays your bills
because that's your Dharma that's what a
man does right your mom needs your help
so [ __ ] helper mm-hmm and I don't
know what's go yeah so I mean I think
you're you're gonna figure that out like
so I think I get what you're saying in
terms of uncertainty so the other thing
is you're religious so like is Allah in
your corner is he helping you out yeah
okay so have some faith in that right
like you can decide whatever you want to
but what makes you think you have it
like why do you think you have control
the thing is I don't feel like I have
control yeah so you just choose you make
a choice and you deal with the emotional
fallout I feel like time is running out
though like yes no of course in November
20th and yeah I gradually December see
you make a decision what's the problem
with making a decision JJ commitment
yeah I mean commitment I think the
bigger problem is you're afraid of
making the wrong decision yes that's the
big one that's the big problem so like
you can't make the wrong decision though
why can't you make the wrong decision um
because they're only two good things
maybe because you don't [ __ ] know
like how can you blame yourself for
making the wrong decision if you don't
[ __ ] know yeah I'm also I was going
to say I'm also a very pragmatic person
and so I try to a part of me says there
are every human being has a limited
number of routes they can take in their
lives right you
you could have been a barber and not a
psychiatrist right
sure you could that's a route that's a
possibility once your mind doing right
now JJ that's taking me away from the
issue absolutely but it is a struggle
bill right of course it's a struggle
because I I think I have so many
possibilities I want to say here's
here's the problem JJ you're trying to
figure this out so that there's a right
answer
the reason you're paralyzed is because
you will do whatever kind of pragmatic
calculating statistical philosophical
psychological you will just chew this
stuff up until you come out with the
right answer the basic problem is that
you're uncomfortable with uncertainty
yes
I don't like not having the answer so
that's what you've got it grapple with
like you've got to just understand that
like this is not gonna get fixed you can
try to like read a manual Conte all you
want to you could talk to some [ __ ]
psychiatrist on the internet and like
you were like you're coming here and
you're hoping that someone is gonna give
you an answer so that you can make the
wrong right decision if you're if you're
this is for you and everyone at home the
way to move forward in life is not to
find the right decision that's like the
like risk-averse strategies are not how
you become successful you become
successful by doing and then like
learning damage control it's not
prevention it's damage control if you
want to be successful in life just get
really good at damage control can you
expand on that what do you mean by
damage control that when you [ __ ] up you
know how to fix it mm-hmm like I I don't
think that there's an objectively right
answer here even there's there's not
even a psychologically correct answer
like because if you stay sure your
earning potential is greater but like
the whole h-1b visa situation is like
that's up in the air man like that's not
a reliable bet like you could stay for a
year everything could get [ __ ] up it's
there's really no way of knowing and so
the thing that you've really got to do
JJ is understand that uncertainty is a
part of the equation that sometimes in
life you just have to like make a choice
and just see what happens and thankful
we you're religious so somewhere along
the way you've lost faith like I don't
know when that happened but it's clear
to me that you don't you've lost faith
like Allah is looking out for you so
just do what you're gonna do and
understand that you could make the wrong
decision and understand that whether you
go so sometimes like for example you're
gonna find your way as long as you try
and as long as you keep at it and as
long as I think you face your negativity
but you're just you're looking for like
a safe safe solution like this is like
you remember when you were a quiet and
good kid that's what you're being right
now you're just being like quiet and
good like how can I figure out like
what's gonna make everyone happy like
how can I figure out how to not rock the
boat like that's what you're trying to
do in your life but your boat is in it's
in like stormy seas it's gonna rock your
fear of that is actually like the
biggest problem like you've just got to
face uncertainty fine so I'm gonna say
something that's that's probably the
most ridiculous thing and then
unfortunately we're gonna have to stop
soon but but that's I don't think it
matters what choice you make because I
don't think you get to control what
happens like I just don't think you do
like I don't from the situation that
you've laid out I think it's a really
challenging conundrum you're in I just I
genuinely do not think there is a right
answer because on the one hand you have
a high degree of uncertainty if you stay
the h-1b visa stuff is really up in the
air so like there's no one's gonna tell
you that that's a corner quote the right
answer and then there's gonna be like a
high degree of uncertainty if you go
like your career options are gonna get
narrowed quite a bit you could become a
millionaire through like cutting YouTube
videos by like you could do that but you
could do that either way right I think
the thing that you've got to start doing
is having faith in yourself that there
is first of all acknowledging that there
isn't a right answer and there isn't a
wrong answer and this is a big problem
that I see with all kinds of gamers it's
like they're not willing to apply to
college until they know they're gonna
get into the one that they want they're
like oh yeah like I'm not gonna apply to
college cuz like it's gonna be I'm gonna
be ashamed if I don't get into like a
good university mm-hm so they want they
want everything to line up to be per
before they take action it's not gonna
work there's some amount of
psychological stuff we can talk about
right like you don't want to stay
because you're abandoning your family
and that's what your dad does and you're
not gonna be like him fine you could
talk about that through that with your
therapist it's a wonderful revelation
eye opening and your situation doesn't
change that's when I realize you
actually don't have a psychological
problem you have a problem of
uncertainty and fear you also have this
arrogance that like you think that you
can figure things out because you've
been good at that so far right you
figured out like how to act so that your
dad minimized the amount of time that he
hit you you didn't just take chances
like you don't take chances so that's
what you've got to learn like you're
your barrier is one of like dealing with
uncertainty and understanding that
sometimes in life you have to roll the
dice mm-hmm I know it's wholly
unsatisfying for you but that's the
[ __ ] point because if you're looking
for satisfaction like that's not gonna
happen the whole point is that you need
to learn how to make decisions without
satisfaction you're coming on here and
you're saying like Oh like but I don't
know what to do now yeah and you're not
going to ever but you can't let that
stop you from acting do you have like
any advice on how to stay in the moment
because I'm always a future-oriented
person I can never watch the meditation
streams right yeah so meditation is the
practice that brings your mind to the
present moment and and we'll do some
meditation today but I think like the
challenge here is that you've got a you
know you've got a I mean it's tough but
you have to practice it it's a skill and
I know that your mind is very
future-oriented because you just love
your mind can think about possibilities
and equations and how if you do this and
then this can happen and then this can
happen and then this can happen what if
I do it this way this can happen and
this can happen can this can happen if I
do it this way this can happen this can
happen this can happen your mind is
spending all of this energy going
through hypotheticals and building
fantasies in your mind and it prevents
you from actually acting at the end of
the day you're spent and you're actually
not this is important to understand
you're not
any closer to the actual solution even
though it feels like all of those
thoughts are bringing you to solution
it's just like today we're like I'm
pushing you to the solution and then
your mind is like oh but I forgot to
mention this and like even at the
beginning you were like okay I have to
start off with a bunch of [ __ ]
context and you should watch my facial
expression go back and watch it I was
like what the [ __ ] I saw I saw that is
there it's like that's no the context
doesn't [ __ ] matter but your mind can
chew on that context it's like it's like
the meal that never ends
for your mind and you just think and you
think and you think and you think and
you think and you think and you think
interesting it's exhausting and it
doesn't get you anywhere so just do make
a decision understand that it could be
the wrong decision and there's no way of
knowing and have some faith okay that's
what I got well thank you very much I
mean I came here for guidance and I got
some guidance on what on being content
that I can't choose or or solidify any
option that I have to just go with go
with the flow you know yeah just I'm
accepting that and if it's wrong you
adjust if it's wrong you adjust that's
the skill that you need that's the
confidence you need to have in yourself
if it's wrong you adjust an and let you
know in a few months whoa let me know
you can you can come back on stream and
we'll see depending on the quality of
yours what what continent hey who knows
I'm a good India my grandpa loves India
okay well if you go there than the your
internet connection will be just as
it'll be unclear it could be as good as
the US could be as bad as Bahrain I have
no idea what far aids Internet is like
but but listen this I will tell you JJ
so first of all I think you're an
awesome guy and I can't you know it's
it's hard to go through what you've gone
through and I think it's really
remarkable it's kind of telling cuz next
on we're gonna have feral and we're
gonna talk to fair all about and
trolls in the internet and holding on to
hatred and I think you've done an
amazing job of not being able when you
have every right to be and that's really
commendable think and I don't think like
you're like your dad so I want you to
take some comfort in the fact that I
really don't think you can abandon your
family even if you try it's just not you
just are not that person
yeah and and that basically what you and
your family are doing is they're they're
rolling the dice right they're making a
gamble and all of you guys need to get
on the same page about like which way do
you want like where do you want to place
your bet on going your home or on
staying and either one you can be
successful either way and I think it
just takes a couple of years to figure
that out I don't think you're locking
yourself into a career for the rest of
your life you can do video and I'm
serious like any kind of programming job
you can do your programming and then do
[ __ ] on the side mm-hmm so I don't I
think their problem is that you're
thinking about an either/or it's not an
either/or it's just about how to do both
so I don't accept your premise that you
have to choose between the two like you
have to choose between the two like
right now sure but six months from now
you can be doing both you can find
contracting jobs for CIS you can do
Contracting jobs for videography and you
can make that transition um last thing
the only reason I feel like I have to
make a choice and I agree with you like
I can do either it's just easier to make
a choice now because of I let's say I
end up going back home it's harder for
me to come back to the u.s. and it's
just logistics base it's not like
finding it hard psychologically or hard
to make a decision is just logistically
if I go back home getting a visa and
convincing an employer hey get me back
to the US h-1b visa over somebody else
it'll be harder so being here in the
u.s. having connections and in Korea
phrase and all you could tell me all the
strategic reasons to make one better the
other I think that's fine I don't think
you're gonna find an answer yeah no I
agree yeah yeah
so don't feed that part of your mind
okay okay just keep us keep us posted
just know that the Jay Jay I have faith
in you I think you're gonna be okay and
I think that you're a good human being
and it sounds
pretty smart it sounds like you just had
a minor amount of brain damage so you
only speak and you know so but that too
is like that's you know I talk about
karma a lot you could talk about the
will of Allah you could talk about Karma
I think it's all the same Tamiya that's
just how it is and I'm sorry that you
know there isn't an easy answer for you
but that's what that's what Allah wants
for you he wants you to be a put your
big-boy pants on and make a decision
ruin yourself true okay thank thank you
man keep us posted really I want to know
what happens yeah yeah I'll be in chat
right now as well so ok here all right
take care of bye